I don't know what's really going on. I was
listening one day when everybody's not black. I
didn't know when they last. When they last. I was
resting down in Alabama, Mississippi. I was here
during King's Marches. And the last time I heard
about it, I called her dad. He said, why in the hell
aren't you going to deal with it? Well, see what
happened right before that. Why in the hell? He
said, why in the hell aren't you going to deal with
it?
This is a very nice town. It's not what it ought to
be. But the potential is there. And we do have some
fat-thinking folk in this town. Well, I guess in
all times. I don't know who to talk to. Again, I'm
going to talk to a lot of them. Let me ask you, you
know, it's not like this area right here. It's
all...
That's the right word. And I think that's the
answer to your problems.
It was just like a fella called me one day and he read
to me what I had written. Daniel and Son Funeral
Home. Suddenly black folk. I stopped and said, no.
No, he said designed to or something. I said, no, it
was designed to serve anybody. It just worked out,
you see. I mean, this is honest. I can bear it down. I
could get another candidate just as good as
Severson.
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank
you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
you. Thank you. Thank you. A lot here. Three lots
here cost me $55. Holy cow, if I got on 29th Street on
one lot, it's going to cost me that. So now again,
it's economic. It's keeping me from my family. Oh,
if you want to go out there and buy, yes. That's what
I'm talking about. I'm talking about that fuel. I
got a teacher friend out there now. That's beside
the point. I started to rebuild. I started to go out
to East Park. But that's not East Park. It's all
Negro. And if I want to go out there, there's going
to be somebody that I'm not going to... That's why I
say you're precious. There's going to be
somebody, you know, that's going to be somebody
that's going to be a star I'm going to be next to,
maybe the same thing I went through tonight. I
could be by my home next to one of you folk that's
going to be just as special and not with the damn
heat. See what I'm saying? So that's why I say, why
don't you pay all those treasures every time?
So I'm just as now, we sell... Have you noticed?
I'll tell you what, let me give you another
example. Went to a political meeting the other
night. That was two, four, six slacks.
The first two that went there was I went and another
fella. We sat down. Here comes the two more. They
came right where we were. Here come the... They
came right by that four. See, I'm not mad at them.
Then if you go somewhere, you're not bad by this.
And there are four or five sitting right here. And I
come and sit with y'all. That's all I'm going to
say. That's all I'm going to say. That's why.
Everybody wants to be clean, isn't it? Yeah. I
listened the other day. Everybody said, uh, I had
to have everybody in my mind. I thought about that.
But, uh, seriously, when I'm sitting here, I
like that. I don't talk about it. I don't think
that's what he should have done. Because I'm going
to have to break it down.
And if you wouldn't, I don't like nothing. Unless
you know me. Now, if you know me, you might come over
and stay a few minutes. But you don't have to be that
long. But if you're afraid, somebody might say,
so-and-so, so-and-so, that is better, and
so-and-so, and so-and-so. They might not put it
that way, because nine times, I said it some other
way, man. They might not say it that way to you,
because seven times out of ten, you folks are going
to have some money. Three times out of ten, that'd
be one of us that'd brag a little. Am I right,
little son? One of your folk told me I passed out one
day. I was going on Main Street that night. Not that
I wanted to drive a Cadillac, but I got a man. I've
always used him to do this. One of your folk asked,
who's that? That's that so-and-so. The man
thought he was stupid. The man told me. And I know
who he is, and I said, I think this is nice. I'd like
to pick him up sometime on the path to me. I do. What
I'm trying to say is sometimes we're forced to this
thing or we're upset.
But you're not going to think about it. Do you speak
out against that? No. Not the potent child abuse.
But I was even too young to really know the effects
of it, feel the effects of it. I was too stupid, one
of the two.
But I happened to be, and I don't mean to say this
braggadociously either, I was fortunate.
Those men always had a few dollars. Always. I said,
I don't say that braggadociously. I'm just
thankful that he did. Consequently,
whatever happened during that time, as far as I
can, it just escaped me.
Just like how she born in 54. She really stick out
the mess. It was that. She even escaped the
depression. Because don't think that the
depression is hard on you folks. It was hard on us.
No, it was hard on you all. Because we've been
depressed. I'm not lying, so to speak. You folks
can't even look at my back depression and say,
we've been out of it. I'm so stiff.
Let me get out of here. You're supposed to walk
around and take a light potty. Then you'll get,
cause I can't do it. Hey babe, remember we had it
nowhere. I don't have one now. What about the
weather? Let's talk about the weather. The
weather? Yeah, has it always been such a new
weather around here? Yes, it is all along. I
remember the weather's been the same. Maybe yet
it's time to get in the hut. Can you remember how
many tornadoes or something at one time? Yes, I can
remember one. And that happened a pretty long ago.
I came off a film. I remember the other place where I
was. My dad talked to me. He had a garage across the
street. And I came in, driving, had something in
the back. And I saw that light on the back when the
door was open. I just thought, you know, lighten
up. And look how hot it was going. Sure enough. And
the last one. Because I knew while it was going, the
wind was high and it rained like the dust. That's
the only tornado. And I thought about this no
longer than last night. What happened? Was it last
night? Yes, last night. I thought about it at the
same time. Because it was looking just about like
it was yesterday. What about, somebody mentioned
that, what is it, what was it, Navistad? It was 25
miles wide or something. It had a flag. Was that
years ago? That was 1900. Oh, 1900. Did you hear
anything about that? I only heard about the
braggers. Packers left his bank right here down
Bridge Road the last few years. I went down to see
it, and looking at the water, somebody said,
that's true, look at it, you didn't see it. I didn't
see it, I didn't see it, there wasn't that much
water one time in life, especially around here.
But our water's on, oh, it's about the same, very
subtle, we haven't had any terrible, well, let me
recall, when I'm from the communes, we don't have
something like this, like a few trees, you know
what I mean? Nothing no more than that that I can
remember.
What about, I asked you this earlier about the
clothing you were wearing. Like when you were
younger, I'm sure, what did the women wear?
Laundry top? I don't remember again. I remember
one thing, and that was back in 38. The men, I'm a
young man now, they were wearing what is known as
drapes. Daddy had what some people call them pigs.
They're big up here and they're comfortable. You
couldn't get none of the shoes on to save your neck.
But my daddy never would buy me one. Never would.
Back to kids at school, me, poor me. I dressed so
bad. What do you mean by bad, Neil? You just didn't
dress in the style? I didn't. My dad wouldn't buy
it. And out of all the kids that were there, my dad
had money to buy it. That's just that. But he always
told me, you got plenty of time. Of course, I
appreciate it today, but I didn't end with a damn.
He said, you got plenty of time. You got plenty of
time. I went to the movies like most of these kids
did. I could almost run fast before I'd go to the
movies. I used to sit in school, and I'd hear these
fellas talk about a song hit radio. Boom, he said,
that's so-and-so being played by so-and-so. I
didn't know all that. But when I went to study in
Westwood, I was getting my line from home. I'd been
in certain of getting that little $106,000 slam. I
was dressing like a fool. I was studying, though.
Don't get me wrong. I got my show for that. I don't
care for the record store. I could tell you who it
was and what it was playing. I guess it was in me. So I
don't remember the young men dressing at that
time. I don't know what the ladies were doing, but I
do know. what we were, what they were men. I wanted
to serve them. Did you live in a, where did you live
in New Orleans? 409 West 19, that's right from here
on the corner, still there. My brother and his wife
live in there now. 409 West 19.
Do you remember anything about your neighbors,
anything that was... They have all passed on, all
those neighbors that were there during my time, I
don't think it's the one living. I was a kid, that's
where it began. Did your parents have a garden in
the back? No. Did you buy all your food in the
grocery store? Yeah, did they have, you know,
like, big supermarkets like they do now? No, no,
no, no. They didn't have all that. Most of you have
food coming around. I'm saddened. I wish they'd do
that today. Put it around the door and call them
drummers. and stuff like that.
You take my daddy, being a minister and a
mortician, he didn't really have time for me. My
mother, like I said, she was a school teacher, and
then she actually put me in school, she started
teaching music. Then for years she played music
for that church there. So she wouldn't have had the
time to with me. He or she wouldn't have had time for
me at all.
Do you think people that you said were drummers?
Well, we called them a drummer. They'd come out,
come out and be selling clothing, come out selling
vests and so forth. We called them the day truck
packers. On the wagon. What about the churches?
You were talking about churches. Have you seen any
changing, you know, changes in religion? Oh,
yeah, yeah. In who? In what? In religion? No,
religion doesn't change. Well, I mean, excuse me.
But the folk, yeah, the folk used to go to church.
They don't go to church no more. Not religion. Now,
we all have a religion now. I'm talking about the
one that we should be talking about. That one, that
religion doesn't change.
Now, we change. I've seen the time. We were talking
about that yesterday. That church right there, we
had a man by the name of U.S. Keeling. He passed a
year ago. Well, it wasn't that church, the old
church. If you want to get in that church, and it was
a big one, bought from the first time the church...
In fact, during this political meeting at 12
o'clock at the Capitol table last Friday, I was
talking to two or a couple of our friends. I was
about to check on them. If you want to get a seat
tonight, you've got to go two feet out of here
tonight. That's a fact. That's a fact. You
couldn't get nine-nine at all. Tonight, how can
you do good and get thirty-four this night?
Now, what it is, I don't know.
But religion itself, it ain't going to get hard. I
think we've got more to do. Well, not that we
couldn't do it some other time. We've got a boat in
the yard now, and we'd be ready to go on a trip, and
we'd be going to Rance's Pass. Now,
I did it once. That's something I didn't do. 29. We
were going to Rance's Pass. In fact, we wanted to
come go with him Saturday morning for a date. Now,
he's coming today anyway. We left that Sunday
morning area, and every time I pass a church going,
I think I just, I don't know, just get me, because
that's something I don't do. And I went on down
there. I didn't catch a darn thing. In fact, I left
carrying two boats, my boat and that. And I just
went along to fish that Monday. I didn't get a bite.
And the weather was bad. I don't know. I can say it's
not so much the religion. The religion has
changed. We have changed. See, at that time when
everybody was going, we couldn't afford a boat. We
couldn't afford nothing to pull it with, much less
the boat. But now we've got two cars of chicken here
parked. And I think that's what has changed. The
good Lord has blessed us too much. Well, religion,
did it used to play a big part in the family life?
Yes. A lot more than it does today. Yeah, again,
again, back to what I'm saying. We didn't have
nothing but that. But now we can do what we want to
do. We got a few dollars and go where we want to go,
you know. Then, too, at that time, that's where all
the girls were, too, you know. Oh, yes, girls, it's
just, it's just not more so now, you know.
Well,
the activities haven't changed. They're the
same. I went then because maybe I had to go, but it
did something for me now that I go now and I don't
have to go. I go now because I love to go. Yet I have
this as much fun as those folks that don't go. I have
fun when I'm there, and I have fun when I leave
there. I say, I can get the robot out to the Lord, and
I get as much fun Monday as I get Sunday, couldn't I?
Well, you might say, well, that man has to work on
Sunday, or on a Monday. Yes, then go Saturday. I
think somewhere it says six days of that late, and
do all that work.
So it's like, it's changed what we're living with.
This is skipping around now, but can you remember
your grandparents? Oh, yes. Can you tell me
anything that was outstanding about them that you
can remember particularly well? I don't know how
it would be outstanding, but I do know my
grandfather was a terrible fellow. He was out the
same house three times. I forget how many acres out
there. And most of the folk, black folk, had moved
to town, so my father... Talked him into setting
out into LeBron, too, because had I known then as I
know now, that acreage would have still been
there, and I'd have had it. Because since that
time, I acquired somebody in bed. I didn't, of
course, the tent was only four miles out there. So
he had him to move right here on
Logan and 20th.
They passed seven years back when my grandmother
passed. I was living in New Pass. I was in
Philadelphia. I didn't get to come to this room at
all. But they sold out and came to Brown. She was a
lovely person. He always talked about her. I don't
know what that man called her. He said, you have
more house. And he had a sister. You know,
sometime, I think you all called the Black Sheep in
the family. When he went to school, some folk told
me my grandmother gave him the check. Now, he don't
do that. My daddy said every time he'd run down,
that's when he'd know about my poor hollow on the
bicycle, I'd buy it. My stepson, I really want your
dad, I'm not kidding.
He'd tell me, he'd say, every time I run to buy a
bicycle, my dad would buy me a brand new horse and
bike. He wouldn't buy me nothing. But instead,
when he went to my house, she'd give him a check, and
she'd be talking about how he didn't run through
with it. My daddy was different most of the time.
And I think I kind of a little rubbed off on me. I'm
not as different, but I got a lot of them. And my two
brothers, they're doctors. I have two twin
brothers down here. They're doctors. We get them
checked with what we want to. They
even sell the checkbook. Talking about
checkbooks, do they always have banks? Can you
remember? Well, as long as I can remember, they had
banks. Was there any prejudice in the banking
system at that time? Well, let's put it this way.
There's still prejudice in the banking system at
that time.
Of course, they're getting better.
And they're getting better now because several of
them, one in particular, has got no organ. Then,
too, the next growers have a little bit more money
to ask for. They're going to have
to kind of put their hand out and kind of talk about
getting that dollar first. Oh, the dollar looks
the same to get it paid. It is better if it pays to get
it. It does get paid. You talking about borrowing
money?
It wouldn't be a better idea than that. back in
1955. I was going to be able to turn home down there.
A brown-bearded, long-headed man by the name of
Ernest Langford. He was a Hellcat till the day he
died. He is in Hell now, looking up, hoping
somebody comes to him with his tongue. And anybody
that's present means, yeah, they can't get away
with it. Because if they hit him, I don't want to go.
If he's hit him, I don't want to go. That's a fact. He
met my wife one day.
But anyway, I wanted to borrow money. Well, after I
came out of service, I wanted to be in their house.
And on paper, the house wasn't close enough. But I
had a house down at, he told me at the time, that was
in
1956. Boy, I was living in 507 West 19th Street with
my father. I'd married then. Boy, You go find
something called $3,000 I'll talk with you. I
said, hell. I said, what do you mean something like
$3,000? I said, that's where I am. That's where I
live. And I said, man, I'm kind of mean. That's more
than the one that I was talking about. And I said, I
grabbed my mean stick from him because my daddy was
the most easy to try to get us off. Unless you made
him hard. Back in the day, the man would break
through the cars, and he always said, like, you
better not do that. That's all he said. Because he
had one of that boys. You better not do that. With
me? Well, his map is the best, of course. His map is
the best. I went to a business meeting with him one
night, and I thought for a reason. Yeah, I only
heard about two of them. They're getting a good map
back in Lincoln, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
That's right. One of the old deacons got up. The
pastor wanted us to send him to the National
Baptist Convention. He said, brother, older, he
said the National Baptist Convention meeting in
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, I'm going. That's
what he said to me tonight. But see, I'd have at
least wrapped my ear in something. You know what,
though, really? It would be nice if more folk like
you would get the message across. It would be
better than any edict that the Congress will ever
pass. Because don't fool yourself. That's some
good black folk. Then there are some that are worth
a damn. And that's some good white folk. I'm going
to give you an example of that.
over me. No, I said, I'm against so-and-so, so I'll
be out of credit. And I said, why? And they said,
excuse me. I don't know, man. I just got mad. What
the? Oh, this preacher. I talk about that every
day. I can't go for that kind of stuff. Because
sometimes, or some people, and some people too, I
don't want to open it. But not only because he's an
equal, not because he's not. And that's what I
said. The preacher can take
I
went
out there. That's the scone of the other guy, I tell
you now. Had she not been there, I wouldn't have
gone. But then after I started letting them come, I
became involved. Now I tell you another thing, I'm
fighting. Since we got Brian High here, I'm
waiting to see now when they're going to finally
find a Negro that's going to come speak to
Baccalaureate Summit. You see, now I'm sure some
of you folks can tell us something, and some of my
folks can tell y'all something. I just mentioned a
good one, Barbara Judge. Out of all the professors
you got at A&M, I think she'll stand toe-to-toe
with whoever. Thanks for two people together.
Because when you find one of us that has excelled or
does excel, don't fool yourself. You've got to
excel sometimes. And she's one of them. You hear
me?
See, I like to tell the whole group of black people
about this same thing. And that's what's going to
get the same spread. For black people. Because
you're going to be more involved than... the lady
here, because she hasn't really been identified
with it. You've been involved in it. But you
haven't been involved to the extent where if you
and another white fellow is coming up the road
there, and one of us is going to walk and kick me, and
then you see me whooping, you're going to turn in
and help him. You're going to turn in and help him.
I'll whoop both of y'all in before you try to
polish. It's kind of like I had two friends fight
one day. Hang on. I had two friends fight one day,
and I'm a friend of this one, I'm a friend of this
one. One of them said, which one are you going to
punch? And I thought about it. It wasn't. Just
punch. So instead of you punching, you're going to
have to take side. That tells me how far you've come
out of where you were. Would you take side, or would
you just punch? Punch. Let's talk about food. We
haven't talked about food. Is the food still the
same? No, it's not the same. I am so hungry. No, it's
not the same. It's not the same. I think we've
doctored it too much. We don't get the same value
from it we used to. Not only have we doctored it,
we're cooking it different. Well, what was
different? What can you remember when you were a
little kid that you ate? Well, I eat the same thing
now, but like I say, it's been... Fertilizer death
and growing too fast. We just don't get from it what
we used to get. Then we've gotten these type of
cooking utensils. We've gotten to put all the good
stuff out in the drain, you know. What we throw in
our drain, we should be eating. And that's what we
keep. We should be throwing in our drain. Well,
what is this? Well, I see that salt food. What is
that? Who's that? Salt food. Salt food. Salt. Oh,
that's just a common vernacular. They give the
stuff like greens and, well, I must be able to call
it greens, chitlins and that kind of mess. They
call it soul. There's nothing soul about it. Yeah.
That's just a name they gave to food like that, soul
food. To me, it's nothing. To me, it's like that
dunce thing right on, and I'm just sick of it.
That's just common vernacular. That's all.
Nothing's soul food. If I like steak, to me, that's
soul food.
If you like baked beans and mustard beans, that's
all right. That's soul food, too. Is that what you
want to call it? Were there any, like, good
restaurants that you've gone to? Outstanding
places? Outstanding? No. We still don't have any.
Wow. Well... Now, I think the closest thing to, I
understand, I went out to... The tower, the food
was very good. Now, I might say that's
outstanding, but I'm putting that in the class of
Seth. It's going to take another, once we get
Piccadilly in here to weigh it wider, then we're
going to have a good
restaurant. Tell us about some of the food you had
when you were back. I ate the same thing then. I ate
the same thing then. I'm eating now. Ten right
there. I'll tell you one thing, every Sunday, my
dad would call them short seven steaks, every
Sunday. And I went out to cut for my grandmother,
she said, you're going to have a chicken every
Sunday. But the food's about the same. We can't eat
as much as we used to because it's so high. I told my
wife yesterday, she had, for dinner now, I had a
strip salad. I think I had supper last night. Strip
salon. That's fine. I said, you can't do strip
salon. Really. We had strip salon Saturday. I went
for dinner yesterday. She had to go to school
because she came home with her. I had strip salon
again last night. So food hasn't changed since the
price has gone up. And one thing about food, like
she said, she said, I'm working. I'm eating a
little. Let's get through. And I can't much blame
her, but I don't see that. We've done that, though.
Oh, I'm sorry. Well, what about, do you remember
that building of Highway 6? No, I can't remember
the building of Highway 6 now.
I don't remember when it was. I don't know whether I
remember that or what. I can't recall.
What about, have you heard of Peach Creek? Yes,
I've heard of Peach Creek. I don't know where that
is, but I've heard of Peach Creek.
I don't know what it is. We just talked about it in
class, you know, somebody mentioned Peach Creek.
Well, I've heard of Peach Creek all right. I just
don't know what to mention. I don't know. I've
heard of Peach Creek.
What about the railroad? Can you think of
anything? Yeah. I asked you that before, but...
The railroad, uh...
I can't think what year it was, man. What did you
call that thing? The Zephyr. That song was just a
smooth ride in the car. And the first day to come
through here, everybody came through at
10-something and 12-something, I believe.
10-something going to Dallas, 12-something
going to Houston. And the first day it was to come
through was like a raid up there, man. That big, you
came through, just flashed all his brakes, set out
like a car. It was a pretty thing. Fast. Was
everybody standing there watching? Oh, yes. They
were there.
They talked about Amtrak, but Amtrak can't be
might of good if you're
equal as that. Let's talk at A&M. Let's talk at
Brown, A&M, and A&M. And I don't think it stopped
between. I don't think it did. I don't understand.
I don't understand.
You folk out there got a wonderful opportunity.
Let me ask you a question.
We had a very large house, but it was heated with
wood. We had out back what we called a wood house.
That was my job at school, make sure that wood was
in. We heated with wood, cooked with wood.
The restroom was outdoors at that time. I can't
remember when we got electricity, but I know
eventually when I can remember, we had
it. We bought television the day they came out,
that they got the bribe. We both tell
them. I'm going to tell you a story about that. Oh,
Kraft, he won't tell anyone tonight because I've
been mad. And Kraft had closed. So I called up,
Daddy, we closed. What do you want? I said, I want to
tell you. He said, oh, hell, they went and closed.